---
title: Macs Are Great But
taxonomy:
	tag: [apple, mac, macbook, macos]
date: '07-04-2022'
---

# Macs Are Great But

I bought my first Mac (MacBook Air M1) in November 2021 (for $1799) and have been using it regularly since. Mainly intended for work purposes. But it definitely leans into my personal stuff as well, due to it's ease of use and convenience (battery life etc).  
I've had ups and downs with it. Sometimes I get a little sick of elements of the macOS desktop (particularly the dock - needs a rethink). But I tend to ride those bumps out and ultimately keep using the machine again.  
In contrast to my previous Windows laptop, an ASUS Zenbook S UX391UA. It was a pretty good machine, quite a step up from my cheap devices from before. But the Mac is a step up again. 
Lately I've been thinking about what computers I want to use the most, which to bring with me and which to use on my desk at home. Ultimately I find that Macs/macOS are the most desirable and smoothest experience versus my Windows and Linux machines. 
I'm starting to avoid Windows for several reasons, like the over-use of telemetry (sending data not-so-transparently about you and your machine back to Microsoft and others). And I still haven't settled on a particular Linux distro that I like (I may write a blog post about that later).  
So macOS just fits into my whole PC setup as a consitently good stable platform for my work and casual stuff. Not gaming though.  
But the problem I find is of course is that they are quite expensive. My MacBook Air M1 is a 256GB/16GB spec model. I'm finding the 256GB storage is just not enough for all my stuff, and occasionally I run out of RAM! So I'm hoping to push forward the next Mac purchase a bit unless I want to drop Macs in a big way like my life before Macs. I'd prefer not to now.  

I'd want 32GB of RAM and 1TB of storage to be safe. However for a that spec MacBook Pro M2, it's $4099 AUD. Holy shiet.  
Compared to a Framework laptop with those specs, 1TB/32GB - it is a fractional price of $1639! Where does Apple put the difference of $2460? Obviously the CPU, build quality, screen. But I'm not sure that's worth $2460 difference.  
Apple are pricing their MacBooks like iPads, which are consumer products. Macs are more aimed at people in productivity roles, which is a more prestigious audience. Kids/teens who are just starting out coding (or other career roles), they'll have to get the cheap Windows lapotp option, they'd have no other choice. Maybe put Linux on them, if it's supported (Linux support these days seems to be more mixed than ever).  
When I was in my earlier 20's I wanted a Macbook but of course they were prohibitively expensive. So I bought an $800 Lenovo Thinkpad Edge (E450) laptop (and upgraded it). Put Linux on it (had good support) and was happy for a while. But I still wanted a Mac for their frictionless experience. Let me get straight into my work without distro hopping, fixing Linux issues, or risking it with running Windows every day if I chose to. 
Also upgrades. The user simply can't upgrade a Mac any more. Previously, you could buy a MacBook and then later upgrade the SSD or RAM yourself. At a fraction of the price of picking the upgrades out of the box. Now you're forced into Apple's pricing structure, which is just as bad if not worse than the iPads.  I get there's some reasoning to it, they can't justify pricing them much less as it's based on who actually buys the upgraded models (apparently not that many people) so they price it higher due to lower demand. But when you take away all user-upgradability, and force expensive upgrades, you're not only losing a desired feature that other laptops offer, but your're replacing a previous option with one where the user has to spend more money to achieve the same results (eg. upgrade the SSD from 512GB to 1TB). You can get a 1TB SSD now for as cheap as $140 AUD. But Apple says that's another $300 on top of the base price of the 512GB model. Or if you want 32GB of RAM, that's another $600 (!!!) on top of the base 16GB model (quick shopping search - 32GB DDR5 SODIMM sticks can get had for under $200 WTF).  
Out of pricinple, even if I could afford a $4099 Macbook Pro M2 1TB/32GB, I don't know if I should encourage that price-gouging practice. I could just get a Framework laptop for $1579 and laugh at all the MacBooks I see. Of course, the Framework has some disadvantages, but are they $2460 worth of disadvantages?  
I'm suggesting to Apple to either bring back user-upgradability (haha unlikely) or make the selectable upgrades about half the current price. Make more people like me who are on the fence just jump that fence and buy MacBooks, which apparently are slowing down in production (https://appleinsider.com/articles/23/04/03/m2-chip-production-allegedly-paused-over-mac-demand-slump)[].
Even if they're not making as much money out of each sale as they'd like to, they'd likely be making more sales, and also sharing the macOS experience with the world more thoroughly. Sometimes a company needs to be a bit generous to get the product into more hands so more people can see the benefits. I know Macs have been around since the Jurassic age, but they're always evolving. How does a MacBook today compare with your previous Windows laptop for example? Maybe you have a Mac 10 years ago then switched to Windows (which are also slumping but are still much more popular and more fairly priced). 
Laptops like the Framework are exactly the kind of laptop that ought to bring back a resurgence in laptop sales, as it gives the user a good reason to upgrade - full future upgradability. We've never really had that before. It may be a slow start but ideally the Frameworks ought to sell well.  
Will Apple take notice and react appropriately? I guess we'll see over the next few years. Maybe my next new laptop will be a Framework. Still undecided.